And I think we're all pretty AI pilled.
And if you're AI pilled, that means we
got to build a lot more compute than the
world thinks. And that these models are
going to be a lot more valuable than
people think. You combine that with
their core business, I don't know
another entrepreneur or another business
that's a better bet on the future,
right, than SpaceX. And so I think for
most institutional investors, it's a
must buy, a must own, a set it and
forget it, right, in order to have a a
real bet on both the space and the AI
future.
All right, here we go.
Early morning Silicon Valley, BG2 is
back. We're chopping it up on all things
tech and markets. To do that, I have
none other than GB in the house, Gavin
Baker from a Treaties. He's brought his
main guy, Andrew Fox. And of course, I
had to draft Clark Tang into the mix, my
partner,
um to talk to to talk about some of the
big questions of the day. You know, how
should we be thinking about the SpaceX
IPO? You know, what are the big levers?
There are big numbers out there for
what's going to happen over the course
of the next few years. So, let's break
that down a bit, help simplify it for
folks.
I Mythos launched yesterday. I want to
talk a little bit about like who's up,
who's down in the race for
superintelligence. Where are we? What
did we learn with the Mythos launch? And
Clark was in uh in in in Taiwan last
week um with Jensen at Computex and GTC.
So, what was our takeaway there? What's
going on with GPUs, memory? Where are
the bottlenecks? And where do we go from
here? To start everything off, um you
know, maybe just kick it over to you,
Gavin, talking about the SpaceX IPO. The
IPO is in 2 days. Uh you're a big
shareholder. Congratulations. We're also
a shareholder. Uh you know, we also we
expect to be buying in the IPO. The Wall
Street Journal's reporting
um you know, the Goldman Sachs are both
saying 160 billion in revenue in 2028.
Um we know that the IPO is $135 a share,
1.77 trillion. Um so
when we think about kind of what the big
levers are, there's so many moving parts
in this IPO. Um nobody's better than you
at just breaking it down, simplifying
it. What are the key levers that we
ought to be thinking about that you're
thinking about over the course of the
next few years?
>> Sure. Um so great to be here. Thank you
for having me. I thought we're going to
call it B BGG B,
but [laughter] we can stick with BG2.
I've been your house.
>> hey.
All subject to revision.
>> That's okay. That's okay. So I think
there's two
big levers or variables that I think
people should focus on. And you know,
I'm not going to comment on where I
think um those variables go.
But one is um you guys have this chart.
Um did you did you post this on X?
>> I did I did before and then we also
included a new addition with uh XAI's
new deals as well.
>> Yeah.
>> So Clark, who I've known for many years,
um
uh made a did a great analysis here.
And he shows that XAI's deal um with
Google for cloud computing
uh generates more operating profit per
gigawatt um than Anthropic, than Meta,
than Google, than OpenAI. Uh their deal
um
>> [clears throat]
>> actually with uh Anthropic
also generates probably more operating
profit than anyone but um Anthropic.
And so you know, um the your your
colleague at Altimeter, Freida, also she
calculated a 55% IRR
>> Mhm.
>> on Claude's one.
>> You know, if you can borrow money at 6,
7, 8% and invest in something with a 55%
ARR,
I'm not the most sophisticated thinker,
but that math maths.
>> Right.
>> And so I think the most important
variable, one of the two most important,
is how quickly they bring on terrestrial
data centers.
>> Mhm.
>> We do know from Jensen that uh Elon
brings data centers up faster than
anyone 122 days. Speed is literally cost
because every day you're paying
electricians and plumbers. That's cost.
And they're now monetizing them at
arguably the highest rate. And so I
think, you know, everybody should run
their own math on that, but that is a
massive variable.
>> Yes.
>> Truly massive variable. The second thing
is, you know, we have a chart and it's
wildly out of date now. It's kind of
freaking amazing. This chart is I think
is this chart from 10 days ago?
But it like the 10 or 12 days since this
chart since we made this chart
which shows the Pareto curves for Opus
4.7 for coding
for Codex from OpenAI. And now we've had
Opus 4.8. It was already out of date.
And now we have Fable
>> Totally.
>> and Mythos, which is freaking wild. In
10 days
>> Yes.
>> like we would have had to update the
chart twice.
>> Right.
>> But what the Pareto curve sure shows is
how much intelligence you can get for a
given amount of cost. And I do think
being all revenue will accrue to the
Pareto curve. All at least kind of
frontier model revenue will accrue to
the Pareto curve. And this is Pareto
curve for code coding. And what I think
is so impressive
is that
you can see in the chart that Composer 2
was Pareto dominant
or, you know, at the lowest level of
intelligence with very little training.
This just reflects, and I know you know
Cursor well. I think you know Cursor
[__] a lot better than I do.
A vast amount better than I do.
[laughter]
But my understanding is that Cursor and
Anthropic have more tokens of
proprietary coding data than anyone
else. And they have more tokens of
proprietary coding data than exist on
the public internet.
And so they fed Cursor fed
um used ChemK 0.25, used their own
private data, did some RL, some
supervised fine-tuning
and they got a really good model. And
then they spent 3 weeks in the Colossus
2 cluster and they got a model that
12 days ago was Pareto dominant with
Composer 2.5. That's on their own
benchmark.
Um Cursor bench, so maybe take it with a
grain of salt. But I think this just
suggests that the Cursor data is very
valuable for coding and when it is
trained, you know, to Chinchilla optimal
or beyond Chinchilla optimal with
reinforcement learning,
you know, I think it suggests that XAI
and SpaceX AI has a shot of being a real
player in coding.
>> I mean, I think one of the interesting
things is, you know, we
you know, the way he answered the
question, right? We didn't talk about
launch.
Right? We didn't talk about Starlink or
communications. Those up until really 6
months ago were the business.
>> Yeah.
>> Right? And, you know, and then we merged
in x.ai and we merged in Cursor and then
we announced these deals where it was
very clear he was kind of building AWS
right under our nose, you know, in in in
in terms of this. But what I want to do
is go to go to Fox. Give us the
breakdown. Three big lines of business,
right? We've got the the the
communication Starlink launch business,
we've got the, you know, AI compute
business and then I want to come back to
x.ai that you were just clicking on. But
if we just go to the core business, what
do we have to assume goes right in the
core business both with launch and with
Starlink in order to achieve the numbers
that are out there?
>> Yeah, sure. So, look, I think
the thing that's foundational to
everything is the launch business.
>> Right.
>> Right? This is the kind of
crown jewel of SpaceX. Um it's something
that no one else really has, notably
reusability.
>> Right.
>> And soon rapid reusability. Right? This
is, I think, what you need to believe in
to get to the economics in AI that make
orbital compute something that's very
economically attractive.
>> Right.
>> Outside of the idea that we are in
shortage for power, shortage for chips.
Right? Um so, I think rapid reusability
is the main thing that we're watching
for and I think most people should watch
for. Um,
you know, Elon talks about it a lot, but
getting these rockets to fly at a
cadence that's comparable to an airline,
right? And and Gavin has used this
analogy before, but
um, the old rocket industry was kind of
like, imagine boarding a plane, flying
to California, getting off the plane,
the plane explodes
after. Um, so I think what SpaceX are
ultimately trying to achieve is have a
Starship fly both stages, not just the
booster. Um,
uh,
30, 40, 50 times
before you have to retrofit that ship.
Um,
and when you do that, you're amortizing
the cost of the vehicle over many
flights, right? And that's what brings
the cost down significantly.
Um,
>> But that's a really hard problem to
solve.
>> Extremely difficult and look, I think
the company, you know, have
been loud and clear, they're going to
attempt to bring back the second stage
>> Right.
>> of Starship later this year.
>> Um, and then make it reusable, you know,
re-fly the second stage next year. Um,
and from there, ramp up the cadence. But
at the end of the day, driving down the
cost of launch
is what enables all of these other
businesses and is what makes them so
attractive relative to incumbents.
>> So how many how many times are we
Starship just launched Starship 3, you
know, just launched. How many launches
are you know, do you think kind of the
consensus out there is assuming, you
know, two or three years from now? Like
what is the launch cadence? Are we
launching one of these every day or we
launching one of these every week or
every month? Like where are we in terms
of expectations?
>> Yeah, so look, I think expectations for
now, you know, we're going from, you
know, call it 160 165 launches last year
up into the high hundreds of launches in
several years and, you know, getting
into the thousands of launches probably
in the next 3 years thereafter.
>> Okay.
>> Um I think the company have aspirations.
>> Thousands of launches, you're launching,
you're doing two or three launches a
day.
>> Right.
>> Right. And then talk to us a little bit,
what is this enable? Obviously, you
know, I'm here in Silicon Valley. I
can't even I can't even keep a call on
Sand Hill Road, two decades into the
mobile revolution. I mean, it's the
craziest thing. It's like a third world.
>> It's It's a major business problem when
you're freaking out here. [laughter]
>> It's crazy. It's crazy. Right by the
Starwood dead zone. And I'm like, how
can this possibly be? So almost like
it's a joke. It's the epicenter of
technology in America and you can't
maintain a call. Okay, so we're all
going to switch to Starlink mobile when
it comes along because I don't want to
lose that call on Sand Hill Road. So
walk me through a little bit just again
high-level. Um it's a big portion of the
revenue growth expected in the business
over the course of the next two to three
years. My hunch is a lot of this is
driven uh by uh by direct to cell
connectivity. Walk me through a little
bit those economics.
>> Yeah, so look, it's actually
interesting. Um
the broadband business is still very
early stage when you think about um the
percent of households that have actually
been penetrated to date. You look at the
percent of global households with
Starlink, it's less than 1%. Uh and
that's the broadband, you know, you kind
of have a base terminal at your house,
on your car, on your boat, um and then
airlines now as well. Um
so I actually think broadband can scale
to hundreds of millions of terminals,
hundreds of millions of users. And today
the subscriber base
>> Hundreds of millions if if they get
rapid reusability of Starship, which is
really hard.
Um
you know, if if there's not competition.
Um hundreds of millions, um it's
possible.
But
maybe
>> I I always say around here, it's funny.
I love seeing PM and kind of analysts in
in this situation. It's exactly what I
do with Clark. Clark will say something,
I'll say the future is a distribution of
unknown probabilities. It's either more
likely or less likely, so give me the
distribution. Are we talking 20% 30%?
It's hilarious. It's the same
>> Well, no, 100% same thing. And like I've
watched Elon do many hard things and
this is a really hard thing. So, I think
it's reasonable to think that they're
going to succeed with rapid reusability,
but just I just think it's important to
acknowledge that like
orbital compute
you know, Starlinks, you know, Starlink
V3, Starlink direct to cell, we need we
need first reusability for Starship V3
and then rapid reusability unlocks a lot
of this.
>> Right. When I see when I see the models
that the banks are putting out there,
right? And Wall Street Journal,
everybody's reported on these. These
same things have been widely leaked.
They they they largely have the revenue
on connectivity, so let's call it
Starlink direct to cell, etc. Going
from, you know, let's call it 10 billion
to 50 billion uh by 2028. And so, I'm
not asking you guys to react to, you
know, to tell me your specific numbers,
but when I'm talking to Clark all I'm
trying to size up is order of magnitude.
Do we think we can 5x the business over
the course of the next 3 years? Is there
enough TAM both in terms of broadband
and direct to consumer? And I think the
answer to that is yes.
>> Yeah, here's what I just say very simply
is I have um
I I travel with Starlink. Um
I'm I'm a big video gamer and very
consistently wherever I am in the world,
Starlink is the best connection.
>> Yes.
>> It's the fastest, it's lowest latency
and I do think once they get to rapid
reusability, it's also going to be
they're going to have the cheapest cost
per gigabyte or megabyte delivered um
and better faster, cheaper has been a
winning formula.
And so, 50 billion, that's, you know,
0.3%
penetration of the global telecom
market. Now, maybe there's some
deflation with Starlink pricing.
Um but that's the way I'd frame it up.
>> Yeah. I like betting on better, faster,
cheaper.
>> Um, Clark, I would say probably the
biggest surprise of the last six six
weeks
is that Elon, you know, we talked about
it on all-in podcast, we called it EWS,
Elon web services, right? That that he
struck these huge deals with Anthropic
and Google.
I don't even think people were thinking
about SpaceX in the AI compute game,
right? We If you looked at the models as
of a few months ago, it was
connectivity, so Starlink, and then it
was x.ai, the model.
But this whole category of taking all of
this compute, which he's uniquely good
at standing up, right? And then
reselling it in a way that's highly
profitable was not in a lot of people's
forecast. Now it's a major component of
the forecast. You know, you and I did
this podcast with Jensen, where Jensen
said Elon is an N of 1.
>> What they achieved is is singular. Never
been done before. Just to put in
perspective, 100,000 GPUs, that's
you know, easily the fastest
supercomputer on the planet as one
cluster.
Um, a supercomputer uh,
that you would build would take normally
3 years to plan.
>> Right.
>> And then they deliver the equipment, and
it takes 1 year
to get it all working.
Yes. We're talking about 19 days.
>> Wow.
>> N of 1 is right. Elon is an N of 1.
>> And his ability to secure supply, stand
up the supply, you know, deploy it in a
way that's uh, you know, coherent and
effective for both himself and I guess
now for others. So, walk us through kind
of that. It looks to me again like this
is a major component of the revenue
story.
>> Totally. I mean, so we we were all at
the macro hard data center, and it was
just very evident the amount of
engineering that was that had gone into
building these sites.
Um,
you people always talk about Google and
their ability to to build a TPU and sell
the TPU to Anthropic to generate
revenues for AI.
I think it's a pretty similar dynamic
here with Elon able to secure power, uh
build these sites faster than anyone
else and also be able now to monetize it
to um to the this massive AI market
that's ahead of us.
Um
if you look at the the relationships
that he's forged with a lot of his
suppliers, you know, be it Jensen, be
it, you know, all of these different um
different sites that actually want xAI
as a tenant. Um his his ability to
finance these deals at at very
attractive uh financing rates relative
to a lot of the other players in in the
space, you know, these are advantages
that compound over time. And when you've
built the credibility to stand up these
sites and monetize at these levels, um
you know, it's very it's actually a very
attractive uh
very attractive proposition for for a
lot of folks involved. Um and actually,
you know,
if you look at the these deals in
particular,
Gavin, you you pointed out, but, you
know, they're they're actually
monetizing, you know, perhaps better
than
other players in the space by selling
this infrastruc-
>> a lot higher.
>> Um Google is obviously paying SpaceX a
huge premium for this compute. Fox, you
said something that I thought was really
important, which is, you know, it may
very well be that in order to get, you
know, first in line on space compute,
which Google certainly wants to do, that
they're willing to pay a premium for
their terrestrial compute. And so, to
me, that's how you kind of square the
circle as to why the premium. Any
thoughts?
>> Yeah, look, I think there's some of that
embedded there, but um look, at the end
of the day, SpaceX can stand up compute
quickly.
They can stand it up coherently. And
they can stand up a lot of it in one
place and have it readily available. So,
look, I think that's most of the
premium, but outside of that certainly
people are going to space over time.
>> I have to pay a little call option to
get first in line for space.
>> There you go. Good one.
>> We've all been investing in the neo
cloud space. So, like there's a
fundamental belief around this table I
that that we lack the compute needed to
continue to push the frontier on
intelligence. So, we have to build a lot
of compute, okay? Now there's a there's
competition going on. On one end you
have the hyper scalers who are building
out that capability. Then we have AI
dedicated clouds that are building out
that capability. And now literally in a
matter of weeks, right, we have a a you
know a giant that's emerged in this
category which is SpaceX.
The question to you Gavin is can they
consolidate this market, right? Because
if I think about a marketplace, Elon has
a unique ability to get the supply. He
has a unique ability to cut deals on the
other side and nobody can stand it up
like he can stand it up. So, I think
there might be a real consolidation in
the AI compute market where you have the
hyper scalers on the one hand and on the
other hand, you know, he may emerge as
the largest, strongest player in the AI
compute market.
>> Yeah, so I think they're are they the
number four number five hyper scaler
today after the Google deal?
>> Um it will be number four.
>> Kind of wild.
>> Yeah.
>> In 30 days
we went from not being an AI hyper
scaler to being number four. And we
passed a lot of companies including
Oracle.
>> Coreweave is a huge business, right?
That we're we're investors in, you know,
and have been investors in, right? But
there are a lot of other players, the
Nebius's of the world, the Iron's of the
world. And I would say that they're
probably 50 neo labs being funded in
Silicon Valley right now as we speak
because of the shortage in compute.
>> Absolutely.
So, that's
kind of crazy in 30 days. That's just
extraordinary.
What I would say is there I think there
is a belief that these data centers are
commodities.
>> Mhm.
>> And I do not share that belief.
Um I don't think anybody around this
table shares that belief.
And in the same way that Elon was able
to re-engineer a rocket from first
principles and make it reusable,
he engineered an electric car from first
principles. You know, everyone else was
trying to, you know, make an electric
car like an internal combustion engine
car and he thought about it differently.
And um
I think he looked at data center design
from first principles and he designed
something fundamentally different. And I
did actually ask the team. I said, "Hey
guys, maybe I'd be a little less public
about things that are very obvious to
you [laughter]
>> Right.
>> about how to design a data center, but
are revelations to other people
because I think what you're doing is
maybe um
more differentiated than you perhaps
realize cuz what you're doing is so
logical to you,
but maybe lot not logical to everyone
else. And that's how he was able to do
it in 122 days.
>> Yeah, to I mean to that point, Brad,
yesterday we were meeting one of our
portfolio companies and we were talking
about behind the meter and we're, you
know, really thinking about it. There's
only maybe two or three two or three
players now that can actually reliably
engineer behind the meter data center.
And you know, there's real engineering
work that goes into all of this. So, if
you think about this,
if you're a gas combustion if you're
Vernova and you say we only have a
certain number of gas combustion
engines. Now, we can sell them to x.ai
or we can sell them to one of these
startup neo clouds. Who are you going to
sell them to?
>> Well, and there's another dynamic.
Everyone starts making more money when
the GPUs get energized and sold faster.
So, literally speed is money for all of
the suppliers. Power, land, turbines.
So,
I think it's we'll we'll see.
>> Right.
>> Hey Brad, man.
>> And but but this is just we're just
talking terrestrial. I do I do want to
hit on and then you can flip it back on
me. Talk to me, okay, So, let's let's
assume, right, that they continue to
build out the terrestrial landscape.
They continue to find buyers for that.
Um, walk us through, you know, what this
unlocks, you know, and how this is
related to space data centers because I
think, you know, once you start talking
terrafab capacity and beyond. So, we're
talking 1,000 gigs, right? And this year
what what we're doing, 25 or 30 gigs
just to put it all in perspective.
>> 20, yeah.
>> Right?
>> 20, 25 gigs.
>> Okay, so so once we start scaling up,
walk us through,
do we have to have space data centers in
order to get excited about buying the
IPO, right? And then there's obviously
this this debate in the world. I I heard
Jeff Bezos say, you know, I think it's
more like 6 years, but Elon's going to
say three because if if he says six,
then it will take even longer. So, say
three and we may get it in four or five.
But are space data centers integral and
essential to, you know, the IPO? And
what do you think the timeline is, Erin?
There are you guys.
>> So, I don't think I think if you think
about those variables around what
Crusher could mean for XAI.
And we do have an existence proof that
once you really get on that Pareto
frontier,
revenue can scale rapidly and it's
called Entropic. And there does seem to
be an exhaust There seems to be a lot of
demand for coding. And I do think I'm
John Massad posted something very
interesting.
>> The The founder of Replit.
>> The founder of Replit. It he called it
bitter lesson adjacent that coding may
be the fastest path to AGI and ASI
because if you really go to coding, you
can write code if a model's good at
coding to do anything. So, I think
that's a profound point and I think
coding is going to continue to be very
important. So, I think if you think
about that variable,
if you think about Starlink direct to
cell enabled by Starlink V3, and you
think about how quickly they can or
cannot bring on terrestrial compute, I I
think orbital compute is is
is necessary for the IPO valuation,
but it's certainly important and it's
>> Well, maybe another way to say it is you
think you
you may think we're going to get to ASI
faster than we're going to get to
orbital compute. That may take us from
300 IQ to 400 IQ, 500 IQ, and beyond.
Um and the ability to scale it up to
consume 10% of, you know, global GDP,
but maybe maybe that's where we should
move next.
>> No, no, I think on the orbital compute,
I think Foxy would be great our Clark to
lay out the math from first principles
on, you know, Clark has this great chart
on, you know, the gigawatts it costs,
you know, the dollars per gigawatt.
>> Right.
>> Walk us through the economic case.
>> Yeah. Yeah, so I mean, on this point of
is orbital key to investing here? I
don't think it is and I'll first point
I'll make is what are the implied
monetization rates
based on expectations today for the AI
business? And you know, I think you
threw out the $160 billion number that's
been leaked out there that people are
talking about.
The implied monetization rate on that
number is something like $14 billion per
gigawatt per year for the AI business.
They just signed Anthropic at 22 to 23.
They just signed Google at 50.
>> Right.
>> Right. So, I I think you can invest
behind the AI business terrestrially and
still be excited about it. But with
orbital
>> an important point. Excited about it if
they can get the land and the power.
>> Right. But but but I mean I I think for
most investors, right? They get They
have an easier time getting their head
around how SpaceX wins terrestrially.
Like can they go get land, power, and
chips? The answer to that is high
probability yes, okay? And what we're
saying is at the rate they're monetizing
that, that gets you to the numbers that
are being leaked out there before you
even have to take the leap of faith that
they're going to extend the lead with
orbital data centers. But take us there
on that, too.
>> Sure. Yeah, so so look, with orbital, I
think the key thing is um two-stage
reusability.
>> Yeah.
>> And beyond that, rapid two-stage
reusability.
>> Yeah.
>> So, today with Starship, they've shown
that they can successfully reland the
booster.
The second stage, we'll see what happens
later this year. I think they're
attempting to bring that back and then
make it reusable by next year.
Um
but the thing that's important about
two-stage reusability when it comes to
the economics for orbital compute,
right, is the cost per kg comes down
significantly. You know, we're talking
about going from $1,500 per kg on
Falcon, somewhere in that range, to 250
per kg, something lower. Um and the more
that you can reuse the rocket,
the more that price comes down.
>> Right.
>> Right, cuz you're just depreciating the
cost of the launch.
And eventually, you asymptote to the
cost of the fuel.
>> Right.
Assuming you can use a rocket for
forever.
>> Yes.
>> Right, which will take a very long time
for us to to really achieve that. But,
um and at that point, we're talking
about something well south of 250 per
kg.
So,
then you look at the specs of these AI
satellites. You know, Elon did a great
>> Yeah, that pod that that pod was
incredible that he laid out the other
day, the specs on the satellites.
>> It was really great because I think they
are finally showing people, here's how
you could viably design one of these
satellites.
And how heavy is the satellite? How many
could you fit into a Starship launch?
And when you back into the numbers, you
get to something like 5 MW of capacity
per Starship launch.
>> Right.
>> There's 100 metric tons in one of those
Starships. So, you can back into the
math of how much will it cost per
gigawatt
to launch these satellites into space.
>> Right.
>> Launch this compute into space. Um
and the math that you get to before you
account for things like
bad GPUs, bad satellites, right, these
will all be things that happen.
But the math you get to is it's about $5
billion per gigawatt of CapEx to put
these in space.
>> Right.
>> For comparison, terrestrially,
talk about the switch gears, the
generators, the transformers, the shell,
getting the power, that today is about
25 20 to 25 billion per gigawatt.
So we're talking about a 5x reduction
in cost
on half of your bill of materials
>> Right.
>> for the data center.
>> Which is a huge number.
>> Yeah, just just very simply, I mean just
to say that put it cost $60 to put a
gigawatt
on the ground today. And we'll call it
35 of that is are the GPUs and the
silicon that's doing the training and
the inference.
And 25 billion is the land, the shell,
the power, and the cooling.
I would hypothesize that those elements
are probably going to be inflationary,
so that 25 billion may not go down.
And because space, power, cooling are
effectively free in space, and when I
say space, I mean land. You know,
there's no land in space, but there is
space.
Um
you're you're talking about putting a
gigawatt into space for 30 billion and
having lower operating costs. Now the
dynamic versus 60 billion that's
inflationary, and that third and that 30
billion, that five may be deflationary
over time.
But what we need to consider
is you know, the reliability and the
maintenance. And so as long as you know,
everybody can do the math,
but as long as these satellites in space
aren't failing at an at an astronomical
rate, the math maths. As you can see,
and by the way, we know GPUs melt and
lasers fail. We know this happens in
data centers,
particularly during big training runs.
And yeah, I mean GPUs melt.
Um so as long as the reliability and
maintenance is not dramatically lower,
the math is there once we have
reusability and then rapid reusability
for Starship V3.
>> I when you
when we look at this, okay, so we we
went through Starlink and we said,
"Okay, like it it just stands to reason
we're going to have direct to cell on
Starlink." Like the assumptions there
are, you know, again, seem like you can
get your head around. Then when it comes
to building terrestrial data centers,
again, not a hard one to think that
based on these couple deals that Elon's
going to build a much bigger Starlink's
going to build or SpaceX is going to
build a much bigger business there. And
then you have this call option on space
that would drop the price even further.
The one thing we haven't talked about is
their model, right? And I find this
surprising, right? Six Six months ago,
x.ai was competing, they were doing
pretty well, but they've done something
dramatic over the course of the past
couple
couple months, which is they bought
Cursor, right? Cursor is 700 800 people
was already doing incredibly well from a
revenue perspective. Our own
projections were that they could exit
this year at up to $10 billion
of revenue, so they were growing very
fast
one of the leading coding agents, but
they also had this incredible team with
the potential, right, to really build a
frontier level model, but they were
compute constrained. So all of a sudden,
they get bought by X. X has massive
compute that they can now train on.
And when I think about the revenue in AI
that like if I look at that line item in
the models having it go from $10 billion
to $150 billion, yes, a lot of that will
be the core weave type business that
they have, but the question is how much
of that is going to be the core x.ai
business that's really powered by the
new team from Cursor. So any thoughts on
that, Kevin?
>> Right now, so Composer 2.5 was Pareto
dominant 12 days ago. It was trained on
the Kimmy K2.5 base model.
>> Right.
>> Now, what's happening is the Grok 4.3
1.5 trillion parameter model is
training.
One would hypothesize based on scaling
laws that that will might be a better
base model. And then the cursor data is
being injected into the pre-training
process, not just reinforcement
learning.
And we'll see, and I think that is going
to be a very important data point when
that comes out. And I just think
everyone should keep in mind that once
you are at multiple places on that
Pareto curve, if you have compute, you
can scale really rapidly.
>> You know, that that to me is if I had to
say what the one piece that's being lost
in the story,
right? Like it's easy for everybody to
get excited about the deals with
Anthropic because you can put your hands
around that. You know how much revenue
it is. I see debate about, you know, the
90-day termination and how long they
last and what multiple do you put on
those revenues. But I think the thing
that's getting lost is I think they've
dramatically advanced their capability
when it comes to building a frontier
model. People outside Silicon Valley may
not know, you know, Michael and the team
at Cursor as well. This is an
extraordinary team that he just
downloaded, right, into SpaceX. SpaceX
was already building good models. And
what they have is
they have this way to monetize compute
that gives you this call option that you
can pull all that compute in-house,
right, to train a model and then to run
the model. I suspect if there's an
upside surprise, if we went around the
table, I'd say this is the place that's
getting the least amount of attention
and could have the biggest upside
surprise. Any any thoughts, Clark, on
what you think is being overlooked or
areas that you think are misunderstood
about the business today?
>> I I would say I would say
what the last few weeks have proven is
that Elon, um,
their team can stand up all this
compute. Actually, if you just, you
know, went back 1 and 1/2 years, you
know, they were behind in the race to
stand up compute. They were you know
they they didn't have that many H100s.
They brought in Colossus. Then they
brought in Colossus 2 at a scale much
larger than anyone else. And now you
know as we gear for Vera Rubin
you know
from you know a lot of my conversations
it looks like they've you know secured
maybe up to 20% of Vera Rubin capacity
especially in the early days of you know
when you know these these chips are very
scarce that that they're going to have a
a
a lead on all of this because you know
people think that they can stand up this
compute better. So I think they'll all
you know what what the last few weeks
have actually shown is that Elon you
know Elon will
take you know take a shot at hitting the
frontier but if it you know if for
whatever reason
um they
they have over procured some capacity
this is a very scarce asset that they've
shown that they can monetize at actually
you know best in class margins and
payback periods.
>> The irony is like you know
you and I've been doing this long enough
to know I mean that's why Bezos built
AWS. Right? He had to build capacity for
Black Friday.
>> Yeah.
>> Right? But then the rest of the year he
sat on all this capacity they had to
build and he figured out a really
incredible way to monetize this. And by
the way investors at the time 2009 2010
when he was building out the capability
around AWS hated it.
>> Of course.
>> Because he was consuming all that free
cash flow. My meanwhile he was digging
the biggest gold mine in the history of
the world. One of the biggest.
>> One of the biggest.
>> Among them among them at the time was
probably the biggest.
>> Yeah Google search might want to have a
we'll have a we'll have a discussion.
>> [clears throat]
>> By the way I do think it is important.
Grok 4.3 I think the cursor if they
acquire it that may end up being very
important. But Grok 4.3 was on the
Pareto frontier and has of 10 or 12 days
ago and this these things move fast. But
most intelligent 500 billion parameter
model in the world. And they were on the
frontier and there are four companies on
the frontier.
xAI, SpaceX AI, Google one with Gemini
3.1 Pro, and then the rest of it was
dominated by Anthropic and OpenAI. But
they were on the Pareto frontier and now
we'll see what they do with Cursor.
>> Yeah. Um I want to come back to that in
a second.
>> way, man, I want to ask you some
questions.
>> go go go. What do you think? So you
think the biggest source of potential
upside is the model?
>> Yes.
>> What do you think?
>> I think that's the I think that's the
thing that's least talked about.
>> Least talked about.
>> Right? And so, listen.
When I look at the bull bear case on the
IPO, right? The bears are looking at
last year's revenue. Say it was $18
billion
and they're looking at the forecast from
the banks of $160 billion, you know, 3
years from now and they're saying,
"Listen, not many companies in the
history of the world have basically 8x
their revenue over 3 to 4 years." Right?
So that's where, you know, I think and
people get nervous about the valuation.
When I look at this, again, when you
break it down as an analyst first
principles, part by part, which is what
I tried to do here, right? When you look
at Starlink, it looks totally doable.
When I look at what they're building in
AI compute terrestrially, looks totally
doable over the course of next 3 years.
When I look at the model itself after
the acquisition of Cursor, you know,
combining those things around the
compute they have, that looks to me like
it could be an upside surprise. So I
would say that I think that uh you know,
in the IPO, but I think when you look
back 3 years from now, there's a decent
chance that everybody's like, "Oh my
god, that was super obvious." Right?
Even though today all of these things
have risk associated and back to where
we started. I'm not, you know, none of
us are here to pump the IPO at 1.77
trillion. It's really to just break it
down as we do inside our shop and to
say, "What is that distribution of
future probabilities? What's the
probability that it's higher from here?
What's the prob" And I think we're all
pretty AI pilled. And if you're AI
pilled, that means we got to build a lot
more compute than the world thinks and
that these models are going to be a lot
more valuable than people think. You
combine that with their core business. I
don't know another entrepreneur or
another business that's a better bet on
the future,
right, than SpaceX. And so I think for
most institutional investors, it's a
must buy, a must own, a set it and
forget it, right, in order to have a
real bet on both the space and the AI
future.
>> From your lips to God's ears.
>> I mean, listen, I I again, I think that
I I I think that you're going to have to
wait, but you know, we had this chart
last week, right, that came out.
Everybody was sending around Twitter,
conveniently timed, and you know, it's
like shows the average max drawdown post
IPO for like 20 companies from Facebook,
Twitter, Alibaba, Shopify is, you know,
over 50%. And so maybe that again will
will will end this section here. You
know, Gavin, you and I've been doing
this a long time. We know it's going to
be bouncy around the IPO. Um,
you know, how do you as a manager try to
try to manage that? Um, do you try to
trade around the IPO? Do you set it kind
of and forget it? I would say from an
Altimeter perspective, what we tend to
do is we take a base position that we
set and forget, right? And then we may
size up or size down depending upon how
the market reacts in, you know, in a
particular moment. Um, but any thoughts
on on this chart or
you know, how how people you guys are
thinking about it in particular. You
obviously own a lot going into it.
>> First agree with absolutely everything
you said and I actually think about it
the same way, set it and forget it.
You've talked about you have ballast,
you move around and you move the ballast
to one side of the ship when you want to
the ship to lean into the wind to go
faster and you move it to the other side
when you don't want the ship to tip
over. I think that's a great analogy.
Think about all
important companies in the portfolio the
same way. So 100% agree. I mean, this
this chart is a bummer. What I would say
is, you know, this data on IPOs, but
what I would just say is this is a
really unprecedented situation.
>> Yes. We've never had an IPO this big.
We've never had an IPO that's going to
go into an index this quickly.
We
simply do not know how much selling
there will be from investors.
I would hazard a guess. I mean, I'm I
don't know.
But Elon, I don't think he needs
liquidity and I think he owns What does
he own, Foxy?
>> It's
50%
>> 50% of the company.
>> way, he's locked up for 365 days or 366
days. So, we know he's not selling,
right?
>> So, I just think it's an unprecedented
situation and the right answer
>> Yeah.
>> is I don't know what's going to happen
in the short term. And the right answer
that I would just, you know, encourage
every investor making their own decision
is to just think exactly [clears throat]
the way you articulated it. We have
these different levers. We have these
different variables. Think about each
one of them from first principles. Make
your own decision.
Do your own due diligence. Be
thoughtful. But, there are a lot of
variables here and that it is a little
funny to me that uh you know, it was 100
times trailing TTM revenue. Well, after
the deals they signed, I think it's at
39 times.
>> That can change fast.
>> So, they added $29 billion in a month.
>> Yes. Now, it's
>> [laughter]
>> By the way, have you ever seen that
happen?
>> Never. Never. And you know, it just goes
to show
first um Elon is not only a great
engineer.
He and Gwen and the team are great at
business.
>> And Brad,
>> They they they understand what needs to
be done to raise the capital to get to
the next phase. They have a long-term
mission in the business. And so, to me,
again, what we saw in the course of the
last few weeks with cursor, what we saw
with these deals that they cut, I don't
know that any of the mag seven could
have moved that quickly to adjust the
business that they did. It's
exceptionally entrepreneurial at scale,
which we very rarely see in businesses.
Two other things I would just say
>> you a hug, Brad?
>> Two Two other things I I I I would just
say. Number one is people talk a lot
about the total amount of capital being
raised. If you add up the capital here,
right, for Anthropic what they may
raise, what OpenAI may raise, what, you
know, SpaceX may raise, let's call it
$250 billion.
That's 1% of the Mag 7.
Okay, it's 1% of the Mag 7.
>> I Yeah. And
And we will as well. You know, like that
to me is like a bet on the future that
we all believe in. And so, if I said,
"Where are we out of consensus? What is
our variant perception?" We actually
think it's going to be bigger, faster,
and we've thought that for a couple
years. Um so, first, it's only 1% of the
Mag 7 market cap. And then you
referenced it, the amount of selling. Um
I've got a chart we'll post here. This
is, you know, the the dribble share
release for SpaceX shareholders. You
know, so there's not a lot that can be
released um up until after the first
earnings. This We saw this in the
Cerebras IPO. Um there's a version of it
here in this IPO. And so, again, I think
the banks have been thoughtful here,
knowing that this is a very large IPO.
And I'm not saying that won't trade
down. Like there's possibility, you
know, these things trade down. But
again, for me, telescope out, is there
any company better positioned as a bet
on the future? I think what they've
shown over the course of last 5 weeks,
they're
they're they're probably number one. But
let's move on.
>> No, no, can I just say one thing about
the employees? I think another thing
that's unprecedented here is the
employees
>> Yeah.
>> and to a large degree the investors here
have had liquidity every 6 months.
>> Exactly.
>> the last 10 years.
>> Yes.
>> So, if you're a SpaceX employee or
former employee, and you wanted to sell
you've had whatever that is,
close to 20 chances. And it is a matter
of historical record that large
investors have been able to sell. So
I would think a lot of the people
>> they've
>> chosen to own it. Now, there's a new
valuation and we'll see what they do,
but just this is utterly unprecedented
and we'll see.
>> Yeah, I know. It's It's It's a great
point. We have in fact called these
companies quasi-public. Um you and I
both know that SpaceX and I'd put
Anthropic in in in this category as
well, Databricks in this category. These
things in many ways have been more
liquid over the course of the past 3
years than some public biotech companies
we know. Right? And so there's a
continuum of liquidity here. We We treat
it as a binary, private versus public,
but it's really about this continuum.
You know, let's keep going on models.
You know, um Anthropic launched Fable 5,
which you referenced um yesterday, which
is basically Mythos um with some
classifiers and safeguards um around
cyber and biology, chemistry,
um and distillation. When those things
get triggered, it fails back [snorts] to
Opus 4.8. Um you know, there was a
Copart tweet about this yesterday. He
said, you know, it sold on all the
benchmarks, but what really makes it
special is long-running tasks. Okay? You
retweeted our good friend, you know,
Noam Brown. Um you know, ChatGPT 5.5
also exhibited these capabilities.
Um you know, it it led Noam, right, to
suggest that it's not very relevant to
do these snapshot benchmarks anymore.
Yeah, like the x-axis has to be time or
tokens or compute because we can solve
most problems now if we just let these
frontier models for a very long uh point
in time. So, Gavin, what is this new
class of model, right, Fable Fable 5,
ChatGPT 5.5? What does it mean for the
race in superintelligence? Who's up?
Who's down? Who's still on the frontier?
Um give us your thoughts.
>> I mean, it's hard to say that
Anthropic's not up.
>> Yeah.
>> Like after
the revenue numbers they've put up,
after the Fable 5 release, and Mythos is
evidently even better.
But I just think that Gnome Brown post
from yesterday, polynomial, is so
profound.
And just the idea that we do not know
how smart these models are.
And we made
>> Say more about that. Why don't we know
how smart they are?
>> Because nobody has run Mythos for a year
continuously. And we may never know how
smart each generation of models actually
is or was, but because we don't have
time to appropriately evaluate their
intelligence before the next model comes
out. I mean, this is a profound
statement. And just just imagine, okay?
So, I always say like when you think
about FSD,
just imagine a human being who never
gets distracted, never gets tired, never
talks on the phone in the car, never
drinks and drives, never yells at their
kids, never has to go to the backseat to
give their baby a bottle.
And like of course you would think that
over time that is superior to humans who
are distracted.
I don't know how long How long can you
think deeply about one topic, Brad?
>> What do you Give me an hour. Give me an
[laughter] hour. Give me an hour.
>> A BIT.
THAT MAKES me feel terrible cuz I think
I can think deeply about one topic
continuously before having a stray
thought enter my mind
for like maybe 5 minutes. Then I can
come back to that.
Imagine if Albert Einstein
had been able instead of, you know, and
maybe that maybe I
maybe he could think for 3 hours at a
time. Clearly an exceptional intellect.
But imagine Albert Einstein had just
thought about fundamental physics
24 hours a day.
He doesn't have to eat, he doesn't have
to sleep, he doesn't have to relax, he
doesn't drink,
>> never gets old,
>> never has diminished intelligence,
>> and he thought for 1 year. I mean, we
might already, you know,
>> have solved a lot of these intractable
problems.
>> So, I just think that's an extraordinary
thought. And just my takeaway was
however
bullish I was on compute before then,
I'm just a lot more bullish.
>> Right. Right. Right. So, so, so that is
a, you know, we saw when
that was probably what really unlocked
Opus 4.6. It was the first really
long-running model that could maintain
that context, maintain that memory, um
solve some of these longer-running
problems, right? For us, the signal was
in January. We knew we felt like that
was a big moment, but then when you
started to see the revenue go up, we
knew that lots of people were voting
independently, that that was a profound
moment that they became much, much more
useful. So,
but one of the things that the consensus
going into this year, right? So, the big
question going into this year was was
the AI revenue going to show up? Were we
going to get to these thresholds of
intelligence that caused enterprises and
consumers to use them more? And I think
the consensus at the time, at least on
this podcast, um the the the debate with
with my with with with Bill was the
open-source models, cheap tokens, were
catching up on the frontier, that
perhaps these models were beginning to
asymptote, um that people wouldn't
really pay for premium tokens,
and it seems to me that the evidence on
the field, 6 months into the year, is
just the opposite, right? That frontier
tokens are capturing the vast majority
of all the revenues,
and that in fact, if you believe in the
long-running capabilities and more
compute allows you to do that, they may
actually be extending their lead, right?
On some of these models that were built
on distillation. So, I just open it up
to anyone around the table, what are
your thoughts on whether or not, you
know, have we challenged this thesis
that cheap open-source tokens are going
to always, you know, close the gap on
these frontier models, or are they
extending their leads?
>> I I think this debate, like this same
debate has existed since the beginning
of
since we started training these models
to begin with, which was hey, we're
always kind of three, six months behind
the frontier. But empirically, like you
can just see all of the revenue has
actually just accrued at the frontier.
And that I think that's because every
time we release the frontier,
a whole new like slew of use cases
>> Right.
>> that that previously we could have never
tackled before, like coding.
Um but also just, you know, you know,
we've we've just been locked at our desk
for the last last day just, you know,
hammering Claude because, you know, it's
just fascinating the things that now we
can do with fable five that we could
just couldn't do with opus 48 just a day
before.
>> So what are some of those things, man?
I'm curious.
>> So So I think it's really really good at
multi-agent orchestration. So they they
Anthropic released a um a blog post
about like different uh agent um six
different agent like orchestration
patterns that, you know, they've they've
talked about. But really like once you
start being able to manage all these
agents, the harness and the model itself
is being arled with one another, they're
actually being,
you know, fused closer and closer
together, but the model can understand
the, you know, the extent of your work.
So, you know, one of the things, for
instance, is um
I just threw in like seven of our models
and just said, "Okay, like I want to
create a master view of like my beliefs
given all of these assumptions of all
these companies, TSMC capacity, like and
then and then produce me a report on all
this stuff." And you know, the the model
is able to reason through all of our
assumptions. Like actually, if you
believe this
>> Right. What are the contradictions
exactly?
>> Yeah, it's it was fascinating. And and
and you know, before we'd never do that,
but but now, you know, I think we're
just step one into multi-agent
orchestration. We're going to do this
even further and that's one example.
I've also dumped all my all my notes
into it and it's reason across all my
notes from the last 3 years and said,
you know, here are some of your ideas
that were consistent. Here are like, you
know, the sources that were actually the
highest signal to what actually played
out, you know, and then it is actually
just super fascinating what you could do
and we've just blown through our blown
through our limits.
>> mean it's it's it's unlocking all this.
I mean like they gave examples yesterday
and the release Anthropic did, you know,
50 million line Ruby code base at Stripe
that was, you know, refactored in a day
versus many weeks with many people. You
think about where this is impacting
biology and life sciences just across
the spectrum.
Um
and to me it really gets back to this
fundamental point. Number one, if you
believe this to be true about
long-running agents, then we're going to
produce and consume more tokens in the
future as far as the eye can see. So the
world this gets me back to, you know,
terrafab and space orbital and all this
because
we we we may in fact unlock real
thresholds of intelligence, but we're
going to have to let these horses run
for a long time in order to get there.
Yeah, I would just say two things I two
things can be true.
>> Mhm.
>> The majority of economic value may
continue to accrue to the frontier and
man has it ever accrued to the frontier
thus far and for sure the first 6 months
of this year, but the majority of tokens
consumed in the world may be open
source.
>> And they are
>> today.
>> Yes. I and I think that this current
state is likely to persist. Harvey had a
great blog post that they put out on X
and they used and it's just amazing how
everything gets out out of date like in
5 days, you know.
But they used their own proprietary
legal data to do reinforcement learning
and supervised fine-tuning
with Fireworks on an open source model
and then And used a router and a router
being something that picks which model
you send which query to, and which model
you use to check which model. And they
got better outcomes than Opus 4 either
4.7 or 4.8 at a lower cost.
>> Yes.
>> And I think that is the future. And the
reality is
they were still consuming a lot of Opus,
but a majority of the tokens they were
processing probably were in their own
open-source models.
>> We heard the same thing. We did a We did
um
We did an enterprise survey that we'll
post of 300 companies how which ones
were optimizing, so these are folks who
are kind of looking at model routing and
saying we're going to send certain
tokens over here, which ones are
thinking about optimizing, which ones
aren't optimizing yet, and then what is
their expected use of frontier model
tokens, right? And they're all expecting
to consume a lot more even though
they're already in the process of
optimizing. Think of it in the in in the
context of JP Morgan. If they're doing
some back of the house stuff, right, on
customer service or whatever, they may
very well use an open-source model. Now,
I think they're loath to use Chinese
open-source models, so they're waiting
on kind of US open-source models to, you
know, be able to really deliver the bang
that they need, but my hunch is for
these enterprises, a lot of that back of
the house stuff will get rooted there.
That will probably be a majority of the
tokens, but I think the really
high-value stuff, you know, coding as an
example, they don't want to write
second-tier code. I think the vast
majority of that will continue to be on
the frontier.
>> Um
>> You don't need Albert Einstein to book
you a trip. You don't need Albert
Einstein to do KYC.
>> But but but this is the debate we had at
literally at this table two years ago.
However, if you just look at the revenue
curves, right? What bill What what folks
concluded when they said that, they
said, "Therefore, the frontier models
will not accrue most of the revenue."
And what we're seeing right now, it's
90% of the
>> That has been decisively wrong. Probably
more than 90%, and it may continue to be
decisively wrong. Frontier might be 90%
of the
economic value. Open-source
>> might be 80% of tokens.
Something that I think is very important
on open source
is that you know, I think there's this
belief that it's bearish for AI.
It's actually it may be very bearish for
the frontier models. There's that bear
case you talked about. It's actually
really bullish for compute and hardware
because if the frontier models are
capturing less of the margin, then
you're going to spend more on compute.
So, the better open source does, the
better it is for compute providers.
>> And I yeah, I I will say it there is a
very
I would say between um spending time in
the heart of like the West, Silicon
Valley, and also spending time in Asia,
there is like a very
big um
like a deep-seated belief in one versus
the other, which is like if you spend a
lot of time here, it's like all closed
source, cloud, every all traffic is
going to go, you know, by way of this
direction. And then you spend time in
Asia, you know,
the the overwhelming belief is that
we're going to find the right model to
the right workload, and we're not going
to overspend.
>> Right.
>> And I think, you know, I would say I
would say
the next year is probably going to be
the most indicative of which way this
falls
um because
I think I think the reason why
uh closed source models have captured so
much of the value is because um the
models actually get the intention and
actually carry through the work. And
this is the first year where we actually
had agents that actually carried out
user intention from just answering a
chatbot request to actually producing
useful work.
>> Right.
>> Um now the the the level of this
intelligent has scaled so rapidly, and
we continue to push against like the
most economically valuable tasks, which
are coding and finance and all these
like knowledge work tasks. But like for
the long tail of tasks, if open source
continues to maintain a 6-month lag, we
might actually see a lot more open
source used for
you know, our everyday tasks that we
might actually
>> basically Jensen's argument, right?
Jensen's argument is you're going to
have model routing
and we're just in a moment in time where
the frontier models gain the advantage
can do long-running tasks that open
source models couldn't do it very well
and so they're accruing all of the
value, but as soon as the open source
models can do the long-running tasks as
well, which is not far away that they
too will grab a bunch a bunch of this
revenue.
>> Are you about to burst into reflection?
>> I'm not.
>> Okay. No, no, no, no are we, but I'm
very impressed by Misha and and the team
and what they're doing. I very much want
a frontier open source US lab to win. We
know that, you know, I heard you say
recently and I believe it to be true
Nvidia any day that they really wanted
to, right? They already have some great
open source models. They could
absolutely build a frontier open source
model whenever they chose to do it and
so it's not a question in my mind as to
whether or not the US is going to have a
frontier open source model. It's just a
question about timing and then like at
that point in time is that you know,
let's say let's assume they get these
long-running capabilities.
Have the frontier labs now achieved
something yet again that allows them to
keep keep the the stranglehold on the
revenues?
>> Yeah, and I just think it's if you're
Wow, that's a cute ASIC you've built
there. That is so cute. How would you
like
open source to join the frontier?
>> Right.
>> How would you like that? How do you like
them apples? So, I mean I'm not sure
that's the explicit calculation, but I
do think Jensen
>> Say more. Just double click on that for
everybody at home.
>> Yeah.
>> If you were if they were to put an open
source model out there, how does that
impact the ASIC landscape?
>> Well,
you might not have the revenue
to fund [laughter]
to fund that the revenue of the margins
to fund that ASIC.
And I do think Nvidia is highly likely
to be the world's dominant provider of
open source AI. And I do think Jensen
will bring open source,
you know, right now it's whatever, 6
months behind the frontier.
>> Yeah.
>> We might see it
creep closer and closer and closer.
And I do think Jensen has a big business
decision. I see this, you know, chart
here, so let's, you know, chop it up
about Nvidia, as you say.
But if all of his customers
are going to compete with him,
>> Yes.
>> then
why not compete with his customers? And
we have all these neo clouds.
>> Right.
>> So that's a cloud computing business
that can compete with all these cloud
computing businesses.
He has his own models that are really,
really good. Nematron 3 or 3.1 was
actually really, really cool from a
computer efficiency perspective. And
he's always careful to release small
models so as to not tread on Anthropic
and OpenAI,
>> Right.
>> Google's toes.
But I do think that is a choice he is
making.
And just, you know, at if if the
economics change,
>> Right.
>> I think Nvidia can join the frontier and
become one of the world's largest cloud
computing companies much faster than
people think.
>> Interesting. Interesting. Clark, walk us
through this
this chart.
>> Yeah, so so I think one of the takeaways
from spending time in Taiwan was there
there is certainly a lot of excitement
around the next wave of ASICs.
Um, but I think I think it's like a very
clear moment now where Nvidia
it used to be an argument of Nvidia
versus ASICs one or the other and, you
know, total domination one or the other.
Now I think it increasingly every year
every every one assumed that Nvidia was
going to lose share dramatically on a
revenue scale, on a gigawatt scale, on a
unit scale. And actually, if you
actually look at the last few years, you
know, they've actually maintained their
share very, very handsomely.
Um, actually,
um, if you accounted for the fact that
Anthropic
was not really using Nvidia. They
probably actually gain share against
if not for in 25 26. So, I think I think
what was very interesting though was a
new class of
accelerators or ASICs.
MediaTek with their
with their new V8T
versus, you know, Broadcom's V8I for
TPUs
actually was a big topic of discussion.
And, you know, I I think for ASICs
the argument now is that more and more
will look custom to the actual workload
and that is like one vector that people
are moving in versus Nvidia now is
has kind of shown itself as the the
predominant provider of compute to
a lot of the world and for, you know,
internal internal workloads,
perhaps they will go more and more
custom and more and more down the stack.
And I I remember just, you know, 1 year
ago when it was kind of a Broadcom or
Nvidia battle. It seems there's a lot
more nuance now to, you know, what type
of accelerators will fit which workloads
and fit which customers and fit which
business models. Um
and yeah,
I thought I thought that was a
a new topic.
>> It's actually
>> New realization though, I think we all
kind of shared this view for a long
time.
>> Yeah, I was just shocked. I mean, I'm
I'm out here. I did a board meeting with
one of our companies
and just, you know, their biggest one
thing they emphasized is
we thought the world would be have be
consuming less Nvidia than it is and if
anything, Nvidia is accelerating and
they just continue to out execute their
competitors. And I think a lot of people
are indexing to this
OpenAI gigawatt and you know, Nvidia has
10.
Broadcom has 10.
Um
who has six?
AMD AMD has six and they have warrants.
And then Cerebras has
our shared portfolio company
has a gigawatt.
And I just that is what's on paper.
>> Right.
>> What actually gets deployed, let's see.
I will be very surprised if you know
that 10 out of 27, what's that math?
Let's see who's best at math. What
percentage market share is that?
>> 30% yeah.
>> Yeah. I'll be very surprised if that is
where they land. I think that is an
extremely unlikely outcome.
And especially as long as we're in a
watt constrained world, if you can get
more tokens per watt, which is literally
revenue with Nvidia
than a lot of alternatives just if you
build your factory with another chip
you may save some money, but you're
going to have less revenue and the
margins may be lower and that's a point
that Jensen keeps hammering and I think
is a really important. And by the way,
credit where credit is due
the most important the most one of the
most surprising things to me in this
ASIC landscape
>> I'd say Meta and Microsoft have been
probably disappointing.
>> Yes.
>> You know who made a good ASIC?
>> Well, I know you know.
>> Yes.
>> Jalapeno
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> from Open AI. They made a great chip.
>> Yes.
>> Now, unfortunately needs to run at a
much lower temperature than the Nvidia
GPUs, which means you need to spend more
money on cooling and that consumes more
power. They made a great chip.
>> Well, we can I mean I think the question
there and the question for everybody is
going to be is that the highest and best
use of your time? Right? Like I you
know, I tend to think that the frontier
companies like there's this belief that
they got to be vertical vertically
integrated. But if you believe like I do
that the race to super intelligence
particularly as we get these recursive
loops working may be over in the next
two to three years, then I think focus
focus focus focus. You exist to build
the best intelligence in the world and
to deliver the best intelligence in the
world and you that means you have to
have all the revenue. Because if you
want to build out the compute that's
going to be required to continue to push
the frontier, you have to have the
revenue in order to support it. So I
think you know, subject to the focus
question, I think they certainly did.
This all brings me back to kind of a
reality check, though.
Um
you know, we just got done talking about
test time compute, inference time
compute, long-running agents. This is
really the thing that's unlocked the
revenue this year. Um it all pushes us
in the direction of more CapEx. Google
just raised $80 billion,
right? We've now taken the Mag 5 or Mag
7 free cash flow, you know, down
dramatically, 80% um from just a few
years ago. Um and Morgan Stanley, you've
got this chart in front of you, up to
their 2027 CapEx forecast from 950
billion to 1.1 trillion. I mean, we were
talking about this with Jensen. That was
his forecast 2 years ago. You know,
obviously, this doesn't even include
SpaceX, CoreWeave, etc. So, I think the
number on 2027 is likely closer to 1.5
trillion.
And if we compare this to the total
incremental inference revenue, so the
thing that the market gets worried
about, you know, back to my Sam Altman
podcast, you know, in October of last
year, can we really afford to spend 1.5
trillion of CapEx a year if we're only
generating X amount in inference
revenue? The thing I think that lit the
fuse this year was Anthropic showed up
in a major way with revenue, right? And
so, we have, you know, the AI lab
revenue everybody combined at around
$300 billion next year, right? So, can't
you know, and go roll that out to 2027
uh or that is 2027, 300 billion. So,
we're spending 1.5 trillion of CapEx on
300 billion of inference revenue. Does
that math math for you? And what would
cause you, you know, to to get more
nervous again about our ability to
continue to make these investments?
Because the second we get nervous about
it, the entire semi complex is going to
come down a lot. Well, what do you think
the gross margins are on that 300
billion? Yeah, let's call it 50%.
>> I I would guess they're probably a
little bit higher than that. I might say
60 or 70.
But, I mean, that math starts to math,
and what I would just say is I think
that 300 billion is low, man.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> I just think it's low.
>> From your mouth to God's
>> Yeah, yeah, exactly. I think I think we
end this year well over 200 billion in
inference revenue, well over.
And so, I think the math really maths,
and I do think we have to give uh Jensen
>> Yeah, our friend.
>> some credit because he said some things
that seemed outlandish.
>> Right.
>> And he was conservative. He was low. He
said a trillion 2 years ago.
And I mean, he was really low.
>> Right.
>> And so, like, let's give the guy some
credit and think about what he is saying
right now.
>> For sure, for sure. And and listen,
I would say consistently,
Elon's been taking the over.
Sundar's been taking the over.
Sam, Dario, you know, Dario did the
podcast with Dwarkesh when he was
talking about country geniuses in the
data center. He said that will be here
by 2028. He said revenues will go into
the low hundreds of billions by 2028.
So, let's call that, you know, 3 400
billion of revenue by 2028. And he said
that a while ago now, so he may even be
revising up his number. And he said it's
hard for me to see that there won't be
trillions of dollars in revenue before
2030. And if you're on that revenue
trajectory, if we're on a trajectory to
200 by the end of this year, let's call
it 4 or 500 by next year, and a path to
trillion plus by 2029, then the math
maths.
>> And we got to keep in mind that half of
the spending is there to
you know, for training, maybe a little
less than half. What is it, Foxy?
>> It's probably that depends on the lab,
but it's I would say it's increasingly
less than half.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So, we'll call it 35% is spending
that's not revenue generating, but it's
going to kind of make the next model.
So, I think the math maths.
>> Right.
>> And there's still this prisoner's
dilemma where if you opted out, that may
be an existential decision.
>> And I think like coming into this year,
going back to this kind of what
narratives were violated, you know,
I think into this year everyone expected
token pricing, uh the price of compute,
it's all deflationary. And it will be
kind of a smooth line deflationary over
time. But, I think this year what we've
seen is the opposite. And you know, it's
all comes back to supply-demand. The
demand side of the equation seems to be
far outstripping the supply. Right? And
I think
you look at the deals signed by SpaceX
and others, the monetization rates per
watt are increasing.
Um
and
look, that is on a a pretty nascent
small base of users, right? Like Alex at
Well Rock, he has this great um
way to frame it.
Less than 0.2% of people on Earth are
actually using AI in an agentic way.
>> Right.
>> Right? Like I'm not a technical person,
but I'm consuming 500 CPU cores in a VM
instance, five GPUs 24/7.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, if you draw that out to any
meaningful percentage of the population,
I mean, we're going to be in, you know,
this kind of shortage environment maybe
for some time. So,
I think that is all positive for this
ROI question.
>> Man, foxy, 100 to one CPU to GPU ratio.
>> [laughter]
>> Kind of agentic workflow.
>> He said of course.
>> [laughter]
>> Five.
>> Five, yes.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm being smart with my phone.
>> Good, good, good. Excellent.
>> I I will say also that ratio of 300 to
1. You know, call it 1.2, 1.5.
Um there there is also a rate that now
physically we can only expand
how much we can produce and how much we
can actually increase that spend by,
whereas we're seeing the opposite right
now on the on the the willingness to pay
for these tokens. And actually like when
the willingness to pay for these when
the monetization per gigawatt is
actually increasing from, you know, call
it like 20 20 billion um in the in the
best best of cases for at the beginning
of the year to now like 30 to even
pushing 40
>> per gigawatt
>> per gigawatt.
Um all of that is is a very heavy fixed
cost base, but all of that is like pure
margin flow through now. And you're
actually, you know, as we scale like the
willingness to pay for for all of this
and and now the all of this stipulated
by like, you know, everything we're
talking about of like how much is open
source versus not and all of these
different flows, but really like as
we're climbing this curve, you know, the
the the revenue is might actually
outstrip our fixed cost base by by
significant amount. And I think that's
why all the labs are pushing, you know,
the the the gas to the pedals because
they all they all see like within if we
continue this curve within like 3 years,
you know, we're just going to be so
short on all the computer
>> It's a great I'm sorry, but I mean I
like it's a great point. Like if you
thought you were getting a when you made
these decisions
>> Yes.
>> in November of 2025,
you thought you were getting a certain
return.
>> Yeah.
>> You may be getting triple that return
today.
>> At Tropic, no way no way did they think
they were going to be anywhere close to
break even.
>> Yeah.
>> Right? And and and and in this part of
the curve, and the reason like I I I
called it accidental profitability that,
you know, people have been talking about
that because they want to spend a lot
more money on computer. They just had a
hard time doing it. Now maybe with
SpaceX, you know, they could take some
of those dollars and and and go spend
them other places. But that to me is,
you know, a a fundamental change. Um the
first argument against the frontier labs
was they'll never generate revenue.
Okay? And then we that got blown up.
Then it was like even if they generate
revenue, it'll be really shitty gross
margins, and they'll never be able to
get make money. And then kind of that
that's blown up. And and you know, I
think now, you know, people are falling
back and they're saying, "Well, they're
overcharging. This is token maxi." My
good friend, you know, Chamath has said
there's no ROI on any of this spend.
It's all this token maxi. My best
evidence for why we all know, of course,
when somebody puts on this much spend
like at Altimeter, we're not optimally
spending every single dollar. But, the
question is, why are millions of
independent businesses, small, medium,
and large, why are millions of consumers
all choosing to do the same thing?
They're not dumb. These are, you know,
rational economic actors that are all
simultaneously saying, "I want to do
this because it makes my life better. It
makes my business better, etc." To me,
that is the best evidence as to why I
think this revenue can continue.
>> Yeah. And Clark, I think like the point
you made is dead on cuz I mean, you want
to own asset-heavy businesses in
inflationary environments, and token
pricing is going up, and supply and
demand is tightening, so totally agree.
>> Um you know, as we begin to
uh find our way to the exit ramp and and
[laughter] and wrap here, one of the
things I you know, you and I've been
doing this for a long time, Gavin, a
couple decades. Um you may even sketch
longer than me, even though I'm a little
bit older than you. Um
you know, we have uh I always like to do
a market check, because I find a lot of
time that analysts come on these things,
and they talk their, you know, talk
their book, and you know, there are a
lot of people who listen to these
things, retail investors and others.
It's just kind of like, what do we
really think? And so, I always
characterize as kind of small, medium,
and large. Like, what am I doing? Do I
have small exposure on? Do I have medium
exposure on? Do I have large exposure
on? You know, and if you look at what's
happened in the markets, semis ripped
this year. I mean, like uh you've been
doing this a long time. I don't I've
never seen it before, right? I've never
seen, you know, the doubles and the
triples across the board like we saw.
But, there's been huge dispersion,
right, in the market. Internet's down
16%,
uh software's down 8% on the year. You
know, spy and and Nasdaq are up, but
really up because of their components
that are related to AI and compute. And
so, the market itself has kind of
struggled. Meanwhile, if you were in the
stuff that we were invested in, we've
all done pretty well. I think you know,
I've said it a couple times. I think if
the Anthropic revenue had not shown up
this year, because that was the overhang
on the market, I think the whole market
could be down this year. Right? Um but
that showed up. You know, we just had
these huge months in in in April and
May. Um for us, you know, because prices
came up so much, because I have some
worry about, you know, geopolitics, the
macro backdrop with, you know, with with
what's going on with inflation in the
short run, and just like, you know,
needing a little consolidation in this
market to answer some of these
questions, because now expectations are
higher. You know, we dialed back from
what I would call large for Altimeter to
something kind of like medium small. Um
again, it's never all or nothing for us.
It's like, what is the risk-reward at a
given price?
Um and so, we think this is a, you know,
maybe going to be a period of
consolidation on way to much higher
highs. Um curious just how you run the
book, how you think about it like a
portfolio manager.
>> Very similarly, man. I always think
stocks, the markets, I imagine them as
runners. Okay?
And like in '22,
that runner had gone downhill. It had a
lot of energy, man.
Yeah, it was painful. It wasn't fun. Um
but coming out of that, there was a lot
of kind of pent-up upside in the market.
And you know, the market, particularly
last 2 months, it has run up a very
steep hill.
And a lot of companies, semiconductor
companies in particular, you know,
ironically, you know, Nvidia and
Broadcom, they they have been laggards.
>> Totally.
>> And so, but a lot of these, like I do
see a lot on X about finding the next
bottleneck. I think that was the last
game. That game is over.
You've had a lot of stocks that forget
climbing a mountain or a hill. They've
gone straight up a cliff, okay?
>> Yes. They're tired. They need to rest.
And we'll see, do they just rest at the
top of that cliff they climbed? Do they
hang out on the in their harness for a
while?
We've seen some.
Or do they need to go downhill for a
bit? We'll see, but I'm thinking very
similarly to you.
But it is and I think there's, you know,
the market is seasonal. I think there's
real
real concerns around inflation and
rates.
>> What was CPI this morning?
>> uh 4.2. I think we added core came in at
like 0.2 versus 0.3, so a little bit
better.
Um but you know, clearly we're we're
above four again.
And um and and there's short-term
pressure on, you know, core PCE, etc.
Um and we have some unknown unknowns,
but the market, I mean, if I had told
you the fact pattern for this year, that
we're going to be in a war with Iran,
that, you know, oil was going to be at
100 bucks, that CPI was going to be
creeping back up, that internet was
going to be down 15%. Software is going
to be down 8%. You would have said, "I
want nothing to do with that market,
right?" And here we are. The market's
done pretty good in the stuff that we
traffic in because the world
underestimated AI revenues and
underestimated the amount of compute
that was going to be needed.
>> It's odd to say you know, we're heading
into a seasonally weak period with all
of these fears. AI has actually been
seasonal for the last three summers.
Token consumption is kind of plateaued,
slowed down, and that's cuz you know,
college kids are big AI consumers and
they don't use as much AI, you know,
hopefully they're all using it to learn
and not cheat.
But that may happen. It may not happen
because of generative AI.
>> is building swarms of agents, building a
SpaceX model. He's going to the SpaceX
IPO with me at the exchange on Friday,
but I he had to build an AI model using
AI agents. He had to build a model, a
DCF before we go to the exchange. He is
mesmerized. He is absolutely and it's
extraordinary what he's doing.
>> So he's one kid who's not easy to less
computer
>> [laughter]
>> or something.
>> He's burning it. He's burning it.
>> Yeah, but you know, if token consumption
plateaus, if open source takes some
share, there's a Silicon data index that
has showed, which is an index of kind of
consumption and pricing. I think there
may have been a little bit of a shift
over the last 2 weeks to open source
tokens that are cheaper. Like people
looking at that data as bearish or not
understanding it. But nonetheless, like
I just think there's reasons, you know,
to look around, be careful, be
thoughtful. I always assume a bullet is
coming for me. Head on [laughter] a
swivel. It's the bullet you don't see
that gets you. So, I'm trying to spin as
fast as I can.
But yeah, it's the market may need to
take a breather. But man, when I think
about what Noam Brown said
and when I see the capabilities of
Fable,
it's just hard for me to get too
bearish.
>> I mean, like to me
um and we got two, I think, of the most
extraordinary guys of, you know, the
next generation, you know, sitting in
the room. We have at Altimeter, we have
deep admiration for the work that you
guys do. I always appreciate when you
send me a note about the work that we do
and we publish. Um but for the guys who
are newer to the business, they might
think this is the way that it kind of
always was, right? And like this line,
the steepening of the line of creative
destruction, the steepening of the line
of, you know, scale advantages. Um I
always believed it was to it was going
to be true. I never thought it would be
true at this rate. I went back last
night. In the last 7 years, we've added
1 trillion of revenue to the Mag 7
in the last 7 years, okay? To get to a
trillion, to get to the first trillion
of, you know, took over 20 years. In the
last 7, we had another tr- trillion and
that added 17 trillion in market cap.
That trillion dollars, okay?
I The forecast now that we're going to
add another trillion of revenue in just
three companies SpaceX Anthropic and
open AI over the next four to five
years.
Okay, like not seven companies three
companies and in half the time right and
so I would say that you know, we are
going to have bumps in the road. I know
that it's going to be like this but
we're going to higher highs because the
size of the prize. This is going to
transform five ten 15% of global GDP.
There is no doubt in my mind and 10% of
global GDP is 10 trillion dollars. It's
an exciting future to be a part of it's
fun to do it with you guys. I think
we're going to have to do our work to do
the things to make sure America wins and
that we evolve the social contract keep
everybody you know lift the floor take
everybody with us on this ride
but it's a it's a it's a really exciting
time to be doing what we're doing it's
fun to be doing it with you guys.
>> Yeah, I just want to say Brad thanks for
having us and thank you for what you've
done with the Trump accounts. I actually
think it's super important for America
for the world to give people an equity
stake at a very young age. They they
will see it compound over their
lifetimes. This is a great thing you've
done for the world. So thank you. I'd
echo all your comments like deep
admiration for you your team gratitude
for the collegiality and friendship
between our firms. I know Clark and Foxy
they hang out like all the time.
>> That's a people think that you know and
there are people in our business who
don't want to share anything. Our view
is like we open source it
but there are very few people who we
actually call and ask their opinion
because there are very few people who do
the thousands of hours of work that we
do
you know that are adding to that and you
do it and we appreciate that and you do
as well Gavin we appreciate that. So
with that love fest let's call it a
wrap.
Thanks for being here.
>> Thank you.
>> Mhm.